Documentation/ReadMe.md, before:

# extension timer

## Preliminary remark

The basis for this documentation is the German variant `de.ReadMe.md`. The English version was translated
using `google.translate.de`. The documentation includes a presentation that I prepared for the TYPO3 Barcamp in
Kamp-Lintfort in 2022

## Attention

8. November 2022: The Timer `RangeListTimer` und `PeriodListTimer` don`t work correctly.

## Motivation

TYPO3 provides the fields `starttime` and `endtime` in its standard tables. Pages can be shown and hidden at specific
times using the fields. These fields are also taken into account during caching. However, there is no way to
periodically show and hide pages, content elements and/or images at certain times.

### User stories

#### The Interactive Pub Voucher.

A restaurant owner wants to give his guests a 50% discount during happy hour. Customers receive this as a QR code on
their mobile phone when they enter the motto of the day hanging above the counter and a Like comment in the interactive
form. In the content element, the current motto is automatically checked, of course.

#### The annual company foundation week

A company celebrates its birthday by looking back at the successes of the past year. These are updated by the employees
on a day-to-day basis. The TYPO3 system takes care of the activation of this special page. The events calendar A small
concert organizer would like to offer periodic events such as poetry slams, readings or open stages mixed with special
concert dates in a list.

#### Reaction column

One party would like to show content from its home page that is similar to that of its competitors on their home pages.
Its website should automatically react to changes made by its competitors. The articles should disappear again for a
certain time.
(Actually, it has nothing to do with time. But the problem could be solved with a timer...)

#### Marketing of virtual concerts

A concert agency in December 2021 would like to organize a virtual concert in Berlin, which should be able to be
received throughout Europe. Since summer time ends in 2021, the organizer expects different time zones in Europe. The
website should display the respective local time for the users.

## Idea

A basic idea of ​​the timer extension is to split the task into two subtasks: the task of the Time management and the
start time control task. The page can be updated regularly via a task in the scheduler (cron job). The integration of
information within templates can be controlled via Viewhelper, whereby the Developers then also have to think about the
caching of the front end. It should be easy to compile simple lists via data processors, which can be displayed in the
frontend. The information from the Flexform fields can be processed in the templates with view helpers.

## Installation of the extension

You can install in one of the classic ways.

- manually
- with the extension manager of the admin tools
- with the composer ``composer require porthd/timer``

Check if the database schema has been updated. The typoscript of the extension is to be included. Depending on the usage
requirements, a scheduler task must be activated or a data processor called in your own typescript.

## Application Aspects

### Periodic content or pages

For content or pages that appear periodically, one of the extension's console tasks must be set up. Out-of-the-box, it
evaluates the elements for which a timer is defined and for which the scheduler evaluation flag is set has been set to
active.

### Content element `timersimul` as an example

The content element `timersimul` shows an example of how the view helpers and data processors are used. In production
environments, they should be hidden from editors. It will be removed when the extension reaches `beta` status.

### Content element `periodlist` for simple appointment lists

The content element `periodlist` has a similar structure to the content element `textmedia`.
It also allows the output of simple appointment lists, provided for the preset
Timer `periodlisttimer` a valid yaml file with a list of appointments is stored.
Various data can be stored in the `data` attribute so that it is structured using a suitable partial or template
Special information such as admission price, advance sales prices or similar can be transferred via file.
This form works well when it comes to automating data about the format of a YAML file from other sources
to accept. This saves entering the data in the backend.

Two path fields for JavaScript and for style sheets were added to the Flexform.
In this way it is possible to display the appointments in calendar form. The default settings are set so
that the school holidays for Lower Saxony and Bremen from the year 2022 are shown in a calendar.

Three data processors were defined so that the data could be read.
The `FlexToArrayProcessor` allows reading Flexform fields and converting them into simple arrays.
This way you can dynamically load the JavaAScript and style sheet files from the content element.
The DataProcessor `PeriodlistProcessor` allows the reading of the appointment list, which is stored in the PeriodlistTimer in the Yaml file
is defined. In addition to the actual fields, the data processor also generates the corresponding DatTime objects for the start and end times of the appointments and calculates the number of days (24 hours = 1 day) between the appointments.
The third data processor `MappingProcessor` is required to transfer the appointment data to the Fluid template as a JSON string.
In this way, the data can easily be made available to the calendar framework via an HTML attribute.
### Use of the periodic timer (Customtimer)

The extension currently comes with several periodic timers. Two of the timers are not yet fully developed. This is one
of the reasons why the status of the extension was changed to
`experimental`.

#### Customtimer - General

You can enable the timers in the constants of the extension.

Custom timers must derive from the interface ``Porthd\Timer\Interfaces\TimerInterface`` and be able to
in ``ext_localconf.php`` to be added to the timer extension as follows:

````
            \Porthd\Timer\Utilities\ConfigurationUtility::mergeCustomTimer(
                [\Vendor\YourNamespaceTimer\YourTimer::class, ]
            );
````

#### CustomTimer - Overview

* DailyTimer - active times recurring daily for a few minutes
  (daily from 10:00 a.m. for 120 minutes)
* DatePeriodTimer - active times recurring periodically for a few minutes relative to a start time. Consider it, that
  because of the return of the time to the UTC zone during the calculation DST can produce unexpected results for hourly
  periodicities.
  (whole day every year for birthdays, every week for 120 minutes until 12:00 from May 13, 1970, ..)
* DefaultTimer - Default timer/null element
* EasterRelTimer - active period relative to important, mostly movable Christian holidays
  (2nd Advent from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m., Rose Monday from 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day)
* MoonphaseRelTimer - Periods starting relative to a moon phase for a specified time period
* MoonriseRelTimer - Periods relative to moonrise or moonset for a specified time period
* PeriodListTimer (unfinished 20221105) reads active period data from a yaml file. Helpful, for example, for holiday
  lists or artist tour plans
* RangeListTimer (unfinished 20221105) reads periodic list from yaml files or from table `` and merges merge them into
  new active areas when they overlap. You can also define a list of prohibited areas, which can reduce such overlaps. (
  Example: every Tuesday from 12pm to 2pm except during school holidays and public holidays)
* SunriseRelTimer - periods relative to sunrise and sunset
* WeekdayInMonthTimer - Periods on specific days of the week within a month starting at specific times with a specific
  duration
  (Example: every second Friday of the month in the two hours before 19:00)
* WeekdaylyTimer - Whole day of a specific weekday or days. (Example: Every Monday or Thursday)

#### CustomTimer - General parameters for all timers

Some parameters are the same for all timers. Two parameters deal with the handling of time zones. Two other parameters
determine the period in which the timer is valid at all. A parameter for controlling the scheduler was omitted. I can't
think of a use case where such an exclusion really makes sense. If you need something like this, you can program a
corresponding timer.

* timeZoneOfEvent - stores the name of the time zone to use. if the server time zone does not match the event time zone,
  the server time will be converted to the event time zone time.
  *Value range*:
  List of generated time zones. The time zone issue is important because some timers need to convert times to UTC. (
  course of the sun, ...)
  *Annotation*:
  All time zones are currently being generated. It is possible to limit the time zones to a general selection.
* useTimeZoneOfFrontend - yes/no parameters. If the value is set, the server's time zone is always used.
* ultimateBeginningTimer - Ultimate beginning of timers
  *Default*:
  January 1 0001 00:00:00
* ultimateEndingTimer - Ultimate end of the timer
  *Default*:
  December 31, 9999 23:59:59

#### Customtimer - Developer - Motivation

The timers do not cover every case. You can also define your own timer class, which must implement the `TimerInterface`.
. You integrate them via your `ext_localconf.php`. You can use your own Flexform to set your own timer give parameters.

### Viewhelper

There are three view helpers:

- timer:isActive - works similar to `f:if`, checking if a time is in the active range of a periodic timer.
- timer:flexToArray - When converting a Flexform definition to an array, the array contains many superfluous
  intermediate levels. These levels can be removed with the Viewhelper, so that the resulting array of the flexform
  array becomes flatter/simpler.
- timer:format.date - works like `f:format.date`, allowing the output of times for a specific time zone.

### Data Processors

Since the results of the data processors are cached, the user must determine what a reasonable caching period is and
define this accordingly.

#### RangeListQueryProcessor

The processor creates a list of dates for the records with periodic timers from a table. The data processor works
similar to the `DbQueryProcessor`.

```
tt_content.timer_timersimul >
tt_content.timer_timersimul < lib.contentElement
tt_content.timer_timersimul {

    templateName = timersimul

    dataProcessing.10 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\RangeListQueryProcessor
    dataProcessing.10 {
        table = tx_timer_domain_model_event

        # get the date, which are defined on the pages, declared in the field `pages`
        pidInList.stdWrap.cObject = TEXT
        pidInList.stdWrap.cObject.field = pages
        recursive = 1

        # sort in reverse order
        # reverse = false

        # name of output object
        as = examplelist
    }
}

```

See also example in example Contentelemtnt ``timersimul``

#### SortListQueryProcessor

The `sys_file_reference` table does not support the `starttime` and `endtime` fields. In order to still achieve
time-varying images, the media obtained by the data processor can be converted into have a list sorted by periodicity
transferred and converted and used accordingly in the template.

```
        dataProcessing {
            ...
            20 = TYPO3\CMS\Frontend\DataProcessing\FilesProcessor
            20 {
                references.fieldName = media
                references.table = pages
                as = myfiles
            }

            30 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\SortListQueryProcessor
            30 {
                fieldName = myfiles
                # length of the sorted list. Perhaps with identical images at different positions
                hard break = 25
                as = mysortedfiles
            }
            ...
        }

```

Note that FLUIDTEMPLATE is cached. That's why:

```
    stdWrap {
        cache {
            key = backendlayout_{page:uid}_{siteLanguage:languageId}
            key.insertData = 1
            lifetime = 3600
        }
    }
```

####FlexToArrayProcessor

The `FlexToArrayProcessor` allows the reading of `flex` fields and converts them into simple arrays.
In this way, the calendar-specific resources could simply be reloaded for the content element `periodlist`.

```
        30 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\FlexToArrayProcessor
        30 {
            # regular if syntax
            #if.isTrue.field = record

            # field with flexform array
            # default is `tx_timer_timer`
            field = tx_timer_timer

            # field with selector for flexform array
            # default is 'tx_timer_selector'
            # selectorField = tx_timer_selector

            # A definition of flattenkeys will override the default definition.
            # the attributes `timer` and `general` are used as sheet-names in my customTimer-flexforms
            # The following definition is the default: `data,general,timer,sDEF,lDEF,vDEF`
            flattenkeys = data,general,timer,sDEF,lDEF,vDEF

            # output variable with the resulting list
            as = flexlist

```

####MappingProcessor
The data processor `MappingProcessor` allows arrays to be mapped into new arrays or into a JSON string.
In this way, the data can easily be made available to the JavaScript using HTML attributes.
The data processor knows simple generic functions, for example to assign unique IDs to events.
It also allows the mapping of field contents and the creation of new fields with constant data.

```

        20 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\MappingProcessor
        20 {

            # regular if syntax
            #if.isTrue.field = record

            # Name of the field containing an array generated by a previous data processor
            inputfield = periodlist
            
            # Each field must be part of the period list
            # Each entry must be formal
            generic {
                # Define an index, e.g. `event1holiday` in the `id` field
                'id' {
                    pretext = event
                    post text = holiday
                    type = index
                }
                # Define a constant, e.g. `cal1` in the `calendarId` field
                calendarID {
                    pretext = cal1
                    post text =
                    type = constant
                }
            }

            mapping {
                # sourceFieldName in period list (see input field) => targetFieldName
                # The assignment is case-sensitive.
                title = title
                startJson = date
                diffDaysDatetime = days
            }

            # Output format has the values ​​`array`,`json`
            # If the output format is unknown, json is the default
            outputFormat = json

            # Output variable with the resulting list
            # Default is `periodlist`
            asString = periodListJson

        }

```

####PeriodlistProcessor
The DataProcessor `PeriodlistProcessor` allows the reading of the appointment list, which is stored in the PeriodlistTimer in the Yaml file
is defined. In addition to the actual fields, the data processor also generates the corresponding DatTime objects for the start and end times of the appointments and calculates the number of days (24 hours = 1 day) between the appointments.

```
        10 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\PeriodlistProcessor
        10 {

            # regular if syntax
            #if.isTrue.field = record

            # Time limit on selecting dates
            #limit {
            # # lower time; stdWrap is supported
            # lower = TEXT
            # lower {
            # data = date:U
            # strftime = %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S
            #
            # }
            # ## upper time limit; stdWrap is supported
            # #upper = TEXT
            # #upper {
            # # data = date:U
            # # strftime = %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S#
            # #}
            #}

            # Hard-wired help mechanism to convert the data fields with the start and end time into a desired format and to save them in an additional field
            dateToString {
                # startJson is the targetfieldName in the following dataprocessor mappingProcessor
                startJson {
                    # use the format parameter defined in https://www.php.net/manual/en/datetime.format.php
                    # escaping named parameters with the backslash in example \T
                    format = Y-m-d
                    # allowed are only `diffDaysDatetime`, `startDatetime` and `endDatetime`, because these are automatically created datetime-Object for the list
                    # These fields are datetime-object and they are generated from the estimated fields `start`and `stop` by this dataprocessor
                    source = startDatetime
                }
           # endJson {
           # format = Y-m-d
           # source = stopDatetime
           # }
            }

            # Limit the list to a maximum number of elements
            # If not specified, the list will be limited to 25 items
             maxCount = 100

            # Name of the output variable passed to the Fluid template.
            # If not specified, default is `periodlist`.
            as = period list

            ## If `flagStart = 1` or `flagStart = true`, the field `start` from the reference list is used to compare the upper and lower limit. This is the default state.
            ## If `flagStart = 0` or `flagStart = false`, the field `stop` from the reference list is used to compare the upper and lower limit.
            #flagStart = false
        }

```

Commit message:

allow FAL-Upload for yaml-files in 'periodlist' and refactoring some languagefiles

Documentation/ReadMe.md, after:

# extension timer

## Preliminary remark

The basis for this documentation is the German variant `de.ReadMe.md`. The English version was translated
using `google.translate.de`. The documentation includes a presentation that I prepared for the TYPO3 Barcamp in
Kamp-Lintfort in 2022

## Attention

8. November 2022: The Timer `RangeListTimer` und `PeriodListTimer` don`t work correctly.

## Motivation

TYPO3 provides the fields `starttime` and `endtime` in its standard tables. Pages can be shown and hidden at specific
times using the fields. These fields are also taken into account during caching. However, there is no way to
periodically show and hide pages, content elements and/or images at certain times.

### User stories

#### The Interactive Pub Voucher.

A restaurant owner wants to give his guests a 50% discount during happy hour. Customers receive this as a QR code on
their mobile phone when they enter the motto of the day hanging above the counter and a Like comment in the interactive
form. In the content element, the current motto is automatically checked, of course.

#### The annual company foundation week

A company celebrates its birthday by looking back at the successes of the past year. These are updated by the employees
on a day-to-day basis. The TYPO3 system takes care of the activation of this special page. The events calendar A small
concert organizer would like to offer periodic events such as poetry slams, readings or open stages mixed with special
concert dates in a list.

#### Reaction column

One party would like to show content from its home page that is similar to that of its competitors on their home pages.
Its website should automatically react to changes made by its competitors. The articles should disappear again for a
certain time.
(Actually, it has nothing to do with time. But the problem could be solved with a timer...)

#### Marketing of virtual concerts

A concert agency in December 2021 would like to organize a virtual concert in Berlin, which should be able to be
received throughout Europe. Since summer time ends in 2021, the organizer expects different time zones in Europe. The
website should display the respective local time for the users.

## Idea

A basic idea of ​​the timer extension is to split the task into two subtasks: the task of the Time management and the
start time control task. The page can be updated regularly via a task in the scheduler (cron job). The integration of
information within templates can be controlled via Viewhelper, whereby the Developers then also have to think about the
caching of the front end. It should be easy to compile simple lists via data processors, which can be displayed in the
frontend. The information from the Flexform fields can be processed in the templates with view helpers.

## Installation of the extension

You can install in one of the classic ways.

- manually
- with the extension manager of the admin tools
- with the composer ``composer require porthd/timer``

Check if the database schema has been updated. The typoscript of the extension is to be included. Depending on the usage
requirements, a scheduler task must be activated or a data processor called in your own typescript.

## Application Aspects

### Periodic content or pages

For content or pages that appear periodically, one of the extension's console tasks must be set up. Out-of-the-box, it
evaluates the elements for which a timer is defined and for which the scheduler evaluation flag is set has been set to
active.

### Content element `timersimul` as an example

The content element `timersimul` shows an example of how the view helpers and data processors are used. In production
environments, they should be hidden from editors. It will be removed when the extension reaches `beta` status.

### Content element `periodlist` for simple appointment lists
The content element `periodlist` has a similar structure to the content element `textmedia`.
It also allows the output of simple appointment lists, provided for the preset
Timer `periodlisttimer` a valid yaml file with a list of appointments is stored.
#### Remarks
##### _Note 1_
In order to enable the most flexible integration of appointment lists, there are two input fields `yamlPeriodFilePath` and `yamlPeriodFalRelation`.
The field `yamlPeriodFilePath` has more the integrator in mind and allows four variants,
to specify the location of the YAML file:
1. Absolute path specification if necessary. also with relative path
2. Path specification with the prefix `EXT:`
3. Simple URL starting with `http://` or with `https://`
4. URL with server password in the format `username:password:url`, where the actual url starts with url starting with `http://` or with `https://`. The YAML instruction `import` is not supported for the URL information.

The `yamlPeriodFalRelation` field has more of the editor in mind and allows the integration of the YAML file via the TYPO3 backend.
Here the editor also has the option of including several files, which the timer treats as one large list.

##### _Note 2_
Various data can be stored in the `data` attribute so that it is structured using a suitable partial or template
Special information such as admission price, advance sales prices or similar can be transferred via file.
This form works well when it comes to automating data about the format of a YAML file from other sources
to accept. This saves entering the data in the backend.

#### representation in a calendar

Two path fields for JavaScript and for style sheets were added to the Flexform.
In this way it is possible to display the appointments in calendar form. The default settings are set so
that the school holidays for Lower Saxony and Bremen from the year 2022 are shown in a calendar.

#### dataprocessors for this timer

Three data processors were defined so that the data could be read.
The `FlexToArrayProcessor` allows reading Flexform fields and converting them into simple arrays.
This way you can dynamically load the JavaAScript and style sheet files from the content element.
The DataProcessor `PeriodlistProcessor` allows the reading of the appointment list, which is stored in the PeriodlistTimer in the Yaml file
is defined. In addition to the actual fields, the data processor also generates the corresponding DatTime objects for the start and end times of the appointments and calculates the number of days (24 hours = 1 day) between the appointments.
The third data processor `MappingProcessor` is required to transfer the appointment data to the Fluid template as a JSON string.
In this way, the data can easily be made available to the calendar framework via an HTML attribute.
### Use of the periodic timer (Customtimer)

The extension currently comes with several periodic timers. Two of the timers are not yet fully developed. This is one
of the reasons why the status of the extension was changed to
`experimental`.

#### Customtimer - General

You can enable the timers in the constants of the extension.

Custom timers must derive from the interface ``Porthd\Timer\Interfaces\TimerInterface`` and be able to
in ``ext_localconf.php`` to be added to the timer extension as follows:

````
            \Porthd\Timer\Utilities\ConfigurationUtility::mergeCustomTimer(
                [\Vendor\YourNamespaceTimer\YourTimer::class, ]
            );
````

#### CustomTimer - Overview

* DailyTimer - active times recurring daily for a few minutes
  (daily from 10:00 a.m. for 120 minutes)
* DatePeriodTimer - active times recurring periodically for a few minutes relative to a start time. Consider it, that
  because of the return of the time to the UTC zone during the calculation DST can produce unexpected results for hourly
  periodicities.
  (whole day every year for birthdays, every week for 120 minutes until 12:00 from May 13, 1970, ..)
* DefaultTimer - Default timer/null element
* EasterRelTimer - active period relative to important, mostly movable Christian holidays
  (2nd Advent from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m., Rose Monday from 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day)
* MoonphaseRelTimer - Periods starting relative to a moon phase for a specified time period
* MoonriseRelTimer - Periods relative to moonrise or moonset for a specified time period
* PeriodListTimer (unfinished 20221105) reads active period data from a yaml file. Helpful, for example, for holiday
  lists or artist tour plans
* RangeListTimer (unfinished 20221105) reads periodic list from yaml files or from table `` and merges merge them into
  new active areas when they overlap. You can also define a list of prohibited areas, which can reduce such overlaps. (
  Example: every Tuesday from 12pm to 2pm except during school holidays and public holidays)
* SunriseRelTimer - periods relative to sunrise and sunset
* WeekdayInMonthTimer - Periods on specific days of the week within a month starting at specific times with a specific
  duration
  (Example: every second Friday of the month in the two hours before 19:00)
* WeekdaylyTimer - Whole day of a specific weekday or days. (Example: Every Monday or Thursday)

#### CustomTimer - General parameters for all timers

Some parameters are the same for all timers. Two parameters deal with the handling of time zones. Two other parameters
determine the period in which the timer is valid at all. A parameter for controlling the scheduler was omitted. I can't
think of a use case where such an exclusion really makes sense. If you need something like this, you can program a
corresponding timer.

* timeZoneOfEvent - stores the name of the time zone to use. if the server time zone does not match the event time zone,
  the server time will be converted to the event time zone time.
  *Value range*:
  List of generated time zones. The time zone issue is important because some timers need to convert times to UTC. (
  course of the sun, ...)
  *Annotation*:
  All time zones are currently being generated. It is possible to limit the time zones to a general selection.
* useTimeZoneOfFrontend - yes/no parameters. If the value is set, the server's time zone is always used.
* ultimateBeginningTimer - Ultimate beginning of timers
  *Default*:
  January 1 0001 00:00:00
* ultimateEndingTimer - Ultimate end of the timer
  *Default*:
  December 31, 9999 23:59:59

#### Customtimer - Developer - Motivation

The timers do not cover every case. You can also define your own timer class, which must implement the `TimerInterface`.
. You integrate them via your `ext_localconf.php`. You can use your own Flexform to set your own timer give parameters.

### Viewhelper

There are three view helpers:

- timer:isActive - works similar to `f:if`, checking if a time is in the active range of a periodic timer.
- timer:flexToArray - When converting a Flexform definition to an array, the array contains many superfluous
  intermediate levels. These levels can be removed with the Viewhelper, so that the resulting array of the flexform
  array becomes flatter/simpler.
- timer:format.date - works like `f:format.date`, allowing the output of times for a specific time zone.

### Data Processors

Since the results of the data processors are cached, the user must determine what a reasonable caching period is and
define this accordingly.

#### RangeListQueryProcessor

The processor creates a list of dates for the records with periodic timers from a table. The data processor works
similar to the `DbQueryProcessor`.

```
tt_content.timer_timersimul >
tt_content.timer_timersimul < lib.contentElement
tt_content.timer_timersimul {

    templateName = timersimul

    dataProcessing.10 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\RangeListQueryProcessor
    dataProcessing.10 {
        table = tx_timer_domain_model_event

        # get the date, which are defined on the pages, declared in the field `pages`
        pidInList.stdWrap.cObject = TEXT
        pidInList.stdWrap.cObject.field = pages
        recursive = 1

        # sort in reverse order
        # reverse = false

        # name of output object
        as = examplelist
    }
}

```

See also example in example Contentelemtnt ``timersimul``

#### SortListQueryProcessor

The `sys_file_reference` table does not support the `starttime` and `endtime` fields. In order to still achieve
time-varying images, the media obtained by the data processor can be converted into have a list sorted by periodicity
transferred and converted and used accordingly in the template.

```
        dataProcessing {
            ...
            20 = TYPO3\CMS\Frontend\DataProcessing\FilesProcessor
            20 {
                references.fieldName = media
                references.table = pages
                as = myfiles
            }

            30 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\SortListQueryProcessor
            30 {
                fieldName = myfiles
                # length of the sorted list. Perhaps with identical images at different positions
                hard break = 25
                as = mysortedfiles
            }
            ...
        }

```

Note that FLUIDTEMPLATE is cached. That's why:

```
    stdWrap {
        cache {
            key = backendlayout_{page:uid}_{siteLanguage:languageId}
            key.insertData = 1
            lifetime = 3600
        }
    }
```

####FlexToArrayProcessor

The `FlexToArrayProcessor` allows the reading of `flex` fields and converts them into simple arrays.
In this way, the calendar-specific resources could simply be reloaded for the content element `periodlist`.

```
        30 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\FlexToArrayProcessor
        30 {
            # regular if syntax
            #if.isTrue.field = record

            # field with flexform array
            # default is `tx_timer_timer`
            field = tx_timer_timer

            # field with selector for flexform array
            # default is 'tx_timer_selector'
            # selectorField = tx_timer_selector

            # A definition of flattenkeys will override the default definition.
            # the attributes `timer` and `general` are used as sheet-names in my customTimer-flexforms
            # The following definition is the default: `data,general,timer,sDEF,lDEF,vDEF`
            flattenkeys = data,general,timer,sDEF,lDEF,vDEF

            # output variable with the resulting list
            as = flexlist

```

####MappingProcessor
The data processor `MappingProcessor` allows arrays to be mapped into new arrays or into a JSON string.
In this way, the data can easily be made available to the JavaScript using HTML attributes.
The data processor knows simple generic functions, for example to assign unique IDs to events.
It also allows the mapping of field contents and the creation of new fields with constant data.

```

        20 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\MappingProcessor
        20 {

            # regular if syntax
            #if.isTrue.field = record

            # Name of the field containing an array generated by a previous data processor
            inputfield = periodlist
            
            # Each field must be part of the period list
            # Each entry must be formal
            generic {
                # Define an index, e.g. `event1holiday` in the `id` field
                'id' {
                    pretext = event
                    post text = holiday
                    type = index
                }
                # Define a constant, e.g. `cal1` in the `calendarId` field
                calendarID {
                    pretext = cal1
                    post text =
                    type = constant
                }
            }

            mapping {
                # sourceFieldName in period list (see input field) => targetFieldName
                # The assignment is case-sensitive.
                title = title
                startJson = date
                diffDaysDatetime = days
            }

            # Output format has the values ​​`array`,`json`
            # If the output format is unknown, json is the default
            outputFormat = json

            # Output variable with the resulting list
            # Default is `periodlist`
            asString = periodListJson

        }

```

####PeriodlistProcessor
The DataProcessor `PeriodlistProcessor` allows the reading of the appointment list, which is stored in the PeriodlistTimer in the Yaml file
is defined. In addition to the actual fields, the data processor also generates the corresponding DatTime objects for the start and end times of the appointments and calculates the number of days (24 hours = 1 day) between the appointments.

```
        10 = Porthd\Timer\DataProcessing\PeriodlistProcessor
        10 {

            # regular if syntax
            #if.isTrue.field = record

            # Time limit on selecting dates
            #limit {
            # # lower time; stdWrap is supported
            # lower = TEXT
            # lower {
            # data = date:U
            # strftime = %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S
            #
            # }
            # ## upper time limit; stdWrap is supported
            # #upper = TEXT
            # #upper {
            # # data = date:U
            # # strftime = %Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S#
            # #}
            #}

            # Hard-wired help mechanism to convert the data fields with the start and end time into a desired format and to save them in an additional field
            dateToString {
                # startJson is the targetfieldName in the following dataprocessor mappingProcessor
                startJson {
                    # use the format parameter defined in https://www.php.net/manual/en/datetime.format.php
                    # escaping named parameters with the backslash in example \T
                    format = Y-m-d
                    # allowed are only `diffDaysDatetime`, `startDatetime` and `endDatetime`, because these are automatically created datetime-Object for the list
                    # These fields are datetime-object and they are generated from the estimated fields `start`and `stop` by this dataprocessor
                    source = startDatetime
                }
           # endJson {
           # format = Y-m-d
           # source = stopDatetime
           # }
            }

            # Limit the list to a maximum number of elements
            # If not specified, the list will be limited to 25 items
             maxCount = 100

            # Name of the output variable passed to the Fluid template.
            # If not specified, default is `periodlist`.
            as = period list

            ## If `flagStart = 1` or `flagStart = true`, the field `start` from the reference list is used to compare the upper and lower limit. This is the default state.
            ## If `flagStart = 0` or `flagStart = false`, the field `stop` from the reference list is used to compare the upper and lower limit.
            #flagStart = false
        }

```
